README.md, before:

# grunt-maven-tasks

> Grunt maven tasks - install artifacts locally or deploy and release articats to maven repository.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.1`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-maven-tasks --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-maven-tasks');
```

## Supported Maven Goals

### no goal

If no goal is specified, the goal will be set to the target name. This means that the target name must be one of `install`, `deploy` or `release`. For more flexibility with the naming of your targets, and/or having multiple targets with the same goal, specify the goal explicitly.

### install

_Run the `grunt maven` task with the `goal` option set to `install`._

This tasks packages and installs an artifact to your local maven repository.

### deploy

_Run the `grunt maven` task with the `goal` option set to `deploy`._

This tasks packages and deploys an artifact to a maven repository.

### release task

_Run the `grunt maven` task with the `goal` option set to `release`._

This task packages and releases an artifact to a maven repository. It will update the version number in the package.json file to the next development version, and, if this is a git project, it will commit and tag the release.

By default, it will increment the version number using the `minor` version. This can be overridden in the config section using the `mode` option.

_Run this task with the `grunt maven:[your-task-target]:major` command to bump the next development version using the `major` version mode._

_Run this task with the `grunt maven:[your-task-target]:1.2.0` command to release version `1.2.0`._

_Run this task with the `grunt maven:[your-task-target]:1.2.0:major` command to release version 1.2.0 and bump the next development version using the `major` version mode._

### Overview

In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `maven` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    options: {
      goal: 'deploy',
      groupId: 'com.example',
      url: '<repository-url>',
    },
    src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
  }
})
```

### Options

#### options.versionFile
Type `String`
Default: package.json

Identifies the file that contains the version file to read.  (E.G. bower.json)

#### options.goal
Type `String`
Default: target name

The maven goal for the target artifact. Valid values are 'deploy' and 'release'. Defaults to the target name

#### options.groupId
Type: `String`
Required

The maven group id to use when deploying and artifact

#### options.artifactId
Type: `String`
Default: name found in package.json

The maven artifact id to use when deploying and artifact

#### options.version
Type: `String`
Default: version found in package.json or the file specified by options.versionFile

The version to use when deploying to the maven repository

#### options.classifier
Type: `String`
Optional

The classifier to use when deploying to the maven repository

#### options.mode
Type: `String`
Default: minor

The mode passed to semver.inc to determine next development version.

#### options.packaging
Type: `String`
Default: zip

The packaging to use when deploying to the maven repository. Will also
determine the archiving type. As internally the grunt-contrib-compress
plugin is used to package the artifact, only archiving types supported
by this module is supported.

#### options.url
Type: `String`
Required

The url for the maven repository to deploy to.

#### options.repositoryId
Type: `String`
Optional

The repository id of the repository to deploy to. Used for looking up authentication in settings.xml.

### options.type
Type: `String`
Optional

Enables you to choose a different file extension for your artifact besides .zip which is useful when using the Maven WAR-plugin

### options.injectDestFolder
Type: `String`
Optional

Enables you to turn off the injection of destination folder inside your artifact allowing you to choose the structure you want by configuring the compress task.

### options.commitPrefix
Type: `String`
Optional

Prefix for the commit message when releasing.

### Files

Files may be specified using any of the supported [Grunt file mapping formats](http://gruntjs.com/configuring-tasks#files).

### Usage Examples

#### Default Options
In this example, only required options have been specified and the 'goal' is defaulted to the target name.

Running `grunt maven:deploy` will deploy the artifact to the `snapshot-repos` folder using the groupId `com.example`, the artifactId set to the name in `package.json` and the version set to the version in `package.json`.

Running `grunt maven:release` will deploy the artifact to the `release-repo` folder using the groupId `com.example`, the artifactId set to the name in `package.json` and the version set to the version in `package.json`, but with the `-SNAPSHOT` suffix removed. The version in `package.json` will be incremented to the next minor SNAPSHOT version, ie. if it was `1.0.0-SNAPSHOT` it will end up at `1.1.0-SNAPSHOT`. If this is a git repository, it will also commit and tag the release version, as well as commiting the updated package.json version.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    options: { groupId: 'com.example' },
    deploy: {
      options: {
        goal: 'deploy',
        url: 'file://snapshot-repo'
      },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    },
    release: {
      options: {
        goal: 'release',
        url: 'file://release-repo'
      },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    }
  }
})

grunt.registerTask('deploy', [ 'clean', 'test', 'maven:deploy' ]);
grunt.registerTask('release', [ 'clean', 'test', 'maven:release' ]);
```

The `maven` task can be configured to support deployment or release of multiple artifacts:

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    deployA: {
      options: {
        goal: 'deploy',
        groupId: 'com.example',
        artifactId: 'myNodeArtifact',
        url: '<repository-url>',
      },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    },
    deployB: {
      options: {
        goal: 'deploy',
        groupId: 'com.example',
        artifactId: 'myBrowserArtifact',
        url: '<repository-url>',
      },
      src: [ 'target/browser/**', '!target/browser/node_modules/**' ]
    }
  }
})
```

#### Custom Options
In this example, the artifactId has been explicitly set, and the version bumping used when releasing is set to `'patch'` level rather than the default `'minor'`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    options: { groupId: 'com.example', artifactId: 'example-project' },
    deploy: {
      options: { url: 'file://snapshot-repo' },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    },
    release: {
      options: { url: 'file://release-repo', mode: 'patch' },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    }
  }
})
```

In order to customize the output archive, please look at the documenations for the [grunt-contrib-compress task](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-compress).

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

Commit message:

[DO] Updating readme with Odobo changes

README.md, after:

# grunt-maven-tasks

> Grunt maven tasks - install artifacts locally or deploy and release artifats to maven repository.


## Odobo Custom Modifications

We've modified the "maven:release" task of this module to add some automations and adapt the task to our current gitflow.

Former behaviour was making a commit with the version to be released, then it created a tag with that name, and finally it was increasing the version number of the project. That automations could provoke someone "releasing" from an improper branch and the git repo to get dirty with wrong commits and tags.

Now the behaviour is pretty much the same but, to adapt it to our gitflow model, we're just allowing the "maven:release" task to be executed in a release branch, where our RC will be (that is, current branch has to be named releases/v$versionNumber).
If that condition is met, then the task will automatically change to master branch, put all the contents of the release branch into master and, finally, continue with the previous described behaviour (commiting, tagging and version increasing).

If the local repo where the commands are being launch is dirty, the task will fail. Future enhancements should automatically stash tracked files and remove untracked ones before the operation begins, unstashing and restoring them after the process is finished.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.1`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-maven-tasks --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-maven-tasks');
```

## Supported Maven Goals

### no goal

If no goal is specified, the goal will be set to the target name. This means that the target name must be one of `install`, `deploy` or `release`. For more flexibility with the naming of your targets, and/or having multiple targets with the same goal, specify the goal explicitly.

### install

_Run the `grunt maven` task with the `goal` option set to `install`._

This tasks packages and installs an artifact to your local maven repository.

### deploy

_Run the `grunt maven` task with the `goal` option set to `deploy`._

This tasks packages and deploys an artifact to a maven repository.

### release task

_Run the `grunt maven` task with the `goal` option set to `release`._

This task packages and releases an artifact to a maven repository. It will update the version number in the package.json file to the next development version, and, if this is a git project, it will commit and tag the release.

By default, it will increment the version number using the `minor` version. This can be overridden in the config section using the `mode` option.

_Run this task with the `grunt maven:[your-task-target]:major` command to bump the next development version using the `major` version mode._

_Run this task with the `grunt maven:[your-task-target]:1.2.0` command to release version `1.2.0`._

_Run this task with the `grunt maven:[your-task-target]:1.2.0:major` command to release version 1.2.0 and bump the next development version using the `major` version mode._

### Overview

In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `maven` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    options: {
      goal: 'deploy',
      groupId: 'com.example',
      url: '<repository-url>',
    },
    src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
  }
})
```

### Options

#### options.versionFile
Type `String`
Default: package.json

Identifies the file that contains the version file to read.  (E.G. bower.json)

#### options.goal
Type `String`
Default: target name

The maven goal for the target artifact. Valid values are 'deploy' and 'release'. Defaults to the target name

#### options.groupId
Type: `String`
Required

The maven group id to use when deploying and artifact

#### options.artifactId
Type: `String`
Default: name found in package.json

The maven artifact id to use when deploying and artifact

#### options.version
Type: `String`
Default: version found in package.json or the file specified by options.versionFile

The version to use when deploying to the maven repository

#### options.classifier
Type: `String`
Optional

The classifier to use when deploying to the maven repository

#### options.mode
Type: `String`
Default: minor

The mode passed to semver.inc to determine next development version.

#### options.packaging
Type: `String`
Default: zip

The packaging to use when deploying to the maven repository. Will also
determine the archiving type. As internally the grunt-contrib-compress
plugin is used to package the artifact, only archiving types supported
by this module is supported.

#### options.url
Type: `String`
Required

The url for the maven repository to deploy to.

#### options.repositoryId
Type: `String`
Optional

The repository id of the repository to deploy to. Used for looking up authentication in settings.xml.

### options.type
Type: `String`
Optional

Enables you to choose a different file extension for your artifact besides .zip which is useful when using the Maven WAR-plugin

### options.injectDestFolder
Type: `String`
Optional

Enables you to turn off the injection of destination folder inside your artifact allowing you to choose the structure you want by configuring the compress task.

### options.commitPrefix
Type: `String`
Optional

Prefix for the commit message when releasing.

### Files

Files may be specified using any of the supported [Grunt file mapping formats](http://gruntjs.com/configuring-tasks#files).

### Usage Examples

#### Default Options
In this example, only required options have been specified and the 'goal' is defaulted to the target name.

Running `grunt maven:deploy` will deploy the artifact to the `snapshot-repos` folder using the groupId `com.example`, the artifactId set to the name in `package.json` and the version set to the version in `package.json`.

Running `grunt maven:release` will deploy the artifact to the `release-repo` folder using the groupId `com.example`, the artifactId set to the name in `package.json` and the version set to the version in `package.json`, but with the `-SNAPSHOT` suffix removed. The version in `package.json` will be incremented to the next minor SNAPSHOT version, ie. if it was `1.0.0-SNAPSHOT` it will end up at `1.1.0-SNAPSHOT`. If this is a git repository, it will also commit and tag the release version, as well as commiting the updated package.json version.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    options: { groupId: 'com.example' },
    deploy: {
      options: {
        goal: 'deploy',
        url: 'file://snapshot-repo'
      },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    },
    release: {
      options: {
        goal: 'release',
        url: 'file://release-repo'
      },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    }
  }
})

grunt.registerTask('deploy', [ 'clean', 'test', 'maven:deploy' ]);
grunt.registerTask('release', [ 'clean', 'test', 'maven:release' ]);
```

The `maven` task can be configured to support deployment or release of multiple artifacts:

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    deployA: {
      options: {
        goal: 'deploy',
        groupId: 'com.example',
        artifactId: 'myNodeArtifact',
        url: '<repository-url>',
      },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    },
    deployB: {
      options: {
        goal: 'deploy',
        groupId: 'com.example',
        artifactId: 'myBrowserArtifact',
        url: '<repository-url>',
      },
      src: [ 'target/browser/**', '!target/browser/node_modules/**' ]
    }
  }
})
```

#### Custom Options
In this example, the artifactId has been explicitly set, and the version bumping used when releasing is set to `'patch'` level rather than the default `'minor'`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  maven: {
    options: { groupId: 'com.example', artifactId: 'example-project' },
    deploy: {
      options: { url: 'file://snapshot-repo' },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    },
    release: {
      options: { url: 'file://release-repo', mode: 'patch' },
      src: [ '**', '!node_modules/**' ]
    }
  }
})
```

In order to customize the output archive, please look at the documenations for the [grunt-contrib-compress task](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-compress).

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).
